wrinkles sunspots skin discoloration
don't you wish you could just snap your
fingers and make it all go away
there are various treatments out there
from creams to peels to
microdermabrasion now these treatments
can take weeks maybe months to see
results
dr. Cameron Rockstar is here to discuss
a treatment to refresh and renew in just
15 minutes try - thanks so much for
joining us will you tell us a little bit
about this procedure it is a form of
laser resurfacing is that right
right it's really a new improved version
of an idea called laser resurfacing and
the idea behind laser resurfacing is to
try to create new skin through
application of a laser and I had that
standards that laser is putting very
zones of controlled laser damage into
the skin and that tricks the skin or the
body to create new skin around it as its
repairing that those zones of damage
that's the theory behind laser
resurfacing it doesn't actually create
damage you are controlling a little tiny
zones of laser damage right and so the
body repairs that up and through this
repair process you create a new skin
that's healthier that's less wrink
that's wrinkle free you know less
scarring and so on and so forth so the
traditional idea of laser resurfacing
with the traditional co2 laser which has
been around for 20-25 years was that
let's peel off a whole layer of skin
altogether and so the body creates a new
skin but that would involve the skin
being raw for about two to three weeks
as the body creates this new skin as you
can imagine if you have raw skin for two
to three weeks there's risk of
potentially in a bacterial infections
and as a result you can have a risk of
scarring and also the healing time would
be so prolonged you know on the order of
weeks and people may be red for six
months after watching fall tale the idea
behind fractional resurfacing with the
Fraxel laser was well instead of
resurfacing everything at once let us
think of resurfacing the skin gently and
gradually over time by putting tiny
zones of laser damage in the skin these
zones happen to be microscopic in nature
like tiny little market for microscopic
needle dots created by the laser and
this is done over time over a few
sessions and the
advantages are that the skin is not raw
you're just a little bit of red and
swollen instead of being raw the healing
time is a fraction of the healing time
of traditional laser resurfacing on the
order of two or three days of just
redness and swelling and you get very
similar results that traditionally is
resurface so each session lasts how long
and how long is the entire person
basically the patient comes in we
usually apply a numbing cream for about
an hour or so and the treatment type
time takes about 15 to 20 minutes after
which you look like you've had a little
sunburn you know your red looking a
little sunburn and you can resume really
your normal activities you could make up
on that you can wash your face normally
it feels a little hot you know for like
maybe an hour afterwards but really
nothing else afterwards and so you know
it's a very easy kind of procedure it
needs to be done a few sessions and
generally we talk about time in between
the sessions anywhere from 2 to 4 weeks
depending on what treating and depending
on the condition that we're treating
patients may require anywhere from 2 to
5 sessions let's say total and so you
know the conditions that we can think of
of using lasers for to resurface is
anything that you can think of that
requires new skin formation so wrinkles
for example you can tighten the skin up
and get rid of wrinkles if you have
scars whether it be scars from acne or
whether it be surgical scars from a
procedure or from from an accident
whether it be melasma or mask of
pregnancy which is you know a lot of
women develop that after pregnancy or
when they're on birth control and that's
pigmentation or even things like stretch
marks on you know off the face you can
actually resurface with this laser all
over the body you can use it all over
the body and that's another advantage to
this idea of fractional resurfacing with
the Fraxel laser because with the old
lasers we were not able to resurface off
the face we're only restricted to the
face because the face has a better
healing capacity with this we can treat
any body surface area whether its arms
hands whether it's stretch marks on the
abdomen and you know another nice
application for this is for a lot of
women as they
the hands age as well their skin becomes
thin and kind of veiny with like you
know brown spots and you know hands is a
nice area for elbows because you know
they always say elbows are one of those
things that give away the age yeah it's
really any any body surface area then
that you want to improve this skin you
want to create in your skin you can use
this laser safely and how long did the
results last the results that's for a
few years because it's your own skin
that's been created your new skin that's
been created so last for a few years one
last thing that I should mention is that
for people with skin of color
traditionally you know patients were
darker skin with their you know darker
Asians Indian Hispanics or African
Americans you know people are always
aware of using lasers on them because
they can run to pigment Airy problems
however because of the idea of
fractional servicing this patient
population can also be safely treated
with this laser without any problems
correct
now how expensive is it how much would
the typical session be a typical session
you know it depends on this the surface
area that you're treating if you know if
for full-face it costs on the order of
$1,000 or $1200 per session yeah so it
really depends on the surface area
that's being treated right but if it
lasts for a year or longer a couple of
years yeah then and so how long has this
particular version of laser resurfacing
been around this idea in my hands has
been around since 2003 you know I did
some of the early clinical work on this
on this laser system 2003 there's been
several updates throughout the years but
you know this idea of fractional
resurfacing has really revolutionized
the field of laser resurfacing and you
don't consider a younger woman or older
woman a better candidate for this it
really doesn't matter you know in my
practice I have you know 18 19 year olds
that may come to me for laser
resurfacing because they've had bad acne
and it's left them you know scars on
their face and I know I have 40 50 60
year-olds who may come to me because you
know they have sun damage and wrinkles
and brown spots and so on and so forth I
should also mention that several studies
in the past year or two have established
that the use of this laser actually
decreases the incidence of precancerous
lesions really as well as skin cancer
it removes precancerous lesions and it
decreases the incidence and and that
really makes a lot of sense because
you're getting rid of old damaged skin
and you're creating new skin which is
healthier fascinating by creating a
little bit of damage you get rid of a
lot of damage that's right dr. Rockstar
thank you so much it sounds like a
fantastic procedure you can find out
more about this 15-minute procedure and
others on our website and you can follow
ABC news now on Facebook and Twitter
just search ABC news now